So, next is the fun part.
I start doing back end stuff using
some pretty cool tools, in my opinion,
that I think are really awesome,
and make things a lot simpler.
So what we're gonna do is we need to,
one, figure out how we're gonna do
the database stuff, and
talk about where we're gonna use it.
Because the next is there's
many places to use database,
you can actually use it through
an API like you typically do.
But you can also use it
directly in a component,
which is kind of weird at the same time.
So it depends on how you want to get
that data and what you're doing.
So we're gonna talk about that.
We also need to talk about the schema,
what is going to go into the schema and
then what I typically do is I like
to write like a seed script to
actually see the database
with some mock data.
And I like to do that versus
like hard coding data.
Because if you just hard code data,
yeah, you can go on and
you can build things faster.
But because you're not going over the
network, to get that data you kind of miss
out on like the error handling and the
loading handling of making an API call.
Because you're just reading from
memory directly hard coded.
So you're always writing a UI
that's 100% guaranteed to work.
And I think that's where a lot of
bugs come in where you're like,
we didn't show a loading spinner.
Or we didn't handle that error because you
forgot to do it because you marked all
the data out, and then you went
back to replace it with an API.
But you never had an error handling or
the loading state handling in there and
initially because you never needed it.
So I typically just like to mock
the database out with C data and
that way I can I can pull from the API.
And that way I can get
the best of both worlds.
I don't need to worry about having
real data in the database, but
I also get the benefit of actually coming
over the wire and handling all the,
asynchronous things like error handling.
In loading, handling and things like that.
So for database, what we're going
to be using is Postgres or PSQL.
If you've never heard that before,
it's just a version of SQL
that's really popular right now.
I'm by no means a database expert.
So I'm not gonna be able to tell you the
big differences with between Postgres and
SQL, it's just that they both use SQL and
Postgres has some different features on
top of them, we'll be using Postgres.
If you never use Postgres, that's totally
fine because the ORM that we're going to
use is going to abstract away
the database almost completely.
Like you're literally never even gonna
interact with the database won't even
matter what database are using because
ORM actually works the same no matter
what database you use.
So it's a complete abstraction
around the database entirely.
You only really need to know
Postgres enough to set it up.
And we're doing that on a remote hosted
platform that you don't even have to
download.
So really don't need to know much
about Postgres at all to follow along.
And we're gonna be using
something called Prisma,
so Prisma it's an ORM plus
a app that allows you to
explore your database plus
autocomplete types for all your data.
It kinda literally serves everything
that you need for a database.
It comes with great like querying
functionality, searching functionality,
all this stuff built into
an ORM that you wish you had.
And then it also generates a client that
you can use anywhere in your app that has
types generated based off your schema.
So you get autocomplete for all your data.
Which is really cool.
And then it also handles
migrations on the database.
So you don't have to write those
sequel migration files, which can be,
if you've ever had to write
those before it's not fun.
It's so much easier with, Prisma they'll
even detect if you need a migration or
not, and write it for you.
He was pretty amazing so we're gonna use
that and it's free it's open source and
it works pretty well with next JS.
They have like some paid thing
I've never used it before but
the open source ones pretty cool so
we'll be using that.
If you haven't used it before don't worry
it's actually really intuitive really
easy to use I know everyone says
that like, they says everything.
They say Graph QL is easy like no, this is
actually really easy and simple to use.
Yes Mark.
>> Does Prisma work for SQL and
no SQL databases at the same time.
>> I do know Prisma supports both
of those types of databases.
They have support for
Mongodb for SQL and for Prisma.
We're gonna be using it in
a serverless environment.
Because for sells API's servers and
Prisma is not always running so
it's slightly different so you're really
not using both at the same time anyway but
on a Redis server yeah I don't know.
Will we have to look into that but I
don't see why you couldn't unless there's
some limitation maybe that's a paid
feature I don't know but good question.
Okay, so let's get started with Prisma so
the first thing we need to do is need to
create some databases if you have Postgres
locally and you know how to use Postgres.
Then you can just not worry about what I'm
about to show you now you can just start
with Postgres database and
get some URLs that way.
I didn't want anyone to have
to download all of that and
do that because it can be pretty tedious.
And then you got to like
know how to use Postgres and
I just didn't feel like doing all that.
So what we're gonna do
instead is use a hosted one,
the quickest one that I
found to use was Heroku.
If you've never been to Heroku
make an account right quick.
It's free you don't need a credit card.
You don't need anything
to make an account.
Should be good to go and then once you get
there you can just make your first app.
So we need to make an app even though
we're not gonna be deploying to Heroku we
still got to make an app
to add a database to it.
So once you go to Heroku you log in and
you make an account you can go here
says new and you can create a new app.
And click create a new app give your app
a name this is a globally unique name.
So it has to be unique just like a domain
will have to be unique so you can't just
type in like some random name it has to be
globally unique which is kind of weird.
But, yeah, give it a name,
I'm gonna call this scott-trax-dev.
I guess someone already has that,
probably me.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I'm gonna say Front End Masters.
There we go Scott tracks
front end masters.
And then he's gonna create app make
sure it's on the United States region.
Once you do that,
you can go over to resources,
click on resources tab, and
you can type in resources add ons.
There's a search box,
you can just type in PSQL.
Or Postgres and
it says Heroku Postgres right there with
a purple elephant you can click that and
you're gonna do the hobby dev
free all other ones cost money.
So, you don't need
the ones that cost money.
You just need the free one.
Click submit order form.
And you gonna make that and
then you're gonna do the same thing again,
we gonna make two of them, and I'm gonna
tell you why you gonna make two of them.
So you literally go back to the search
box, you gonna make Postgres again and
you can do the same thing.
So in order for
me to make this two of them.
Okay, so you should have two of them here.
You'll see that they
both say attached as and
then they'll have
the environment variable name.
That's not that important what
you need to know that but
we do need to have the databases
only because of Heroku and
I'll walk through that
when we set up Prisma.
Okay, again, if you have Postgres
on your machine already running,
this doesn't matter, you'll use
those URLs when we need to connect.
But everyone else this,
I looked at all the hosting providers,
this was the simplest one to set up
all the other ones were just like,
way too much involved.
This was like click done.
So simplest one.
As far as Postgres goes, I think it's
the one that Prisma recommends in their
documentation as well to just get started.
So it's pretty simple.
Okay so next we're gonna do is we're going
to go to our terminal make sure you're in
the directory of your project which I am
you're gonna type in MPX Prisma in it.
And you can see when you run that,
it's gonna do a couple things,
it's gonna say your Prisma schema was
created at prisma/schema.prisma.prisma.
You can now open it in your favorite
editor and then it says next steps set
your database URL the .env file set
the provider the data source block and
schema prison to match your
database Postgres MySQL SQL lite.
Run prisma DB pool to turn your
database schema into a prisma schema.
We don't have a database schema,
we just made a new one.
And then Prisma generate the client.
So there's a lot of stuff here.
We're not gonna do all these things in
this step because we don't need to.
So just follow along, but
everyone should have this.
So let's check out what was actually
happening underneath the hood.
So the first thing is you'll notice that
we've got this new folder called Prisma.
Inside of it, there's a schema dot Prisma.
If you're using VS code, there should be
a plug in you can download to get the nice
colors and it actually does a lot of
formatting and autocomplete for you.
I highly recommend downloading the Prisma
extension in the marketplace if you're
on VS code.
It does so much.
It's actually really cool.
The team behind it did a really good job.
Literally one of the best language
tools I've seen in VS code.
So, highly recommend downloading that if
you're looking at addition like wow I
don't know this language it's fine is
literally just like filling out JSON it's
not hard at all.
It's not like some new crazy DSL you'll be
able to do this no problem I promise you.
The next thing is if you go look
at the .env file you can see
that we have a database URL,
that we need to fill out and
this is where we're going to add our
database URL that we set up on Heroku.
So in order to get that,
what you need to do is actually go to
the Heroku dashboard that we just created.
So let's go back there,
we'll go to the Heroku dashboard.
Let's click on either one of them.
It doesn't really matter which one you
can click right here, the name of it.
So I'm gonna click on for
me and click on the second one.
It's gonna say not found for a minute,
then it'll load If you go to settings and
you go to database credentials
you click on view credentials.
And then down here where it says URI
you want to copy that whole thing.
So we're gonna copy that whole thing
there, you're gonna go back to your
code and you're going to end your
.env file where it says database.
URL you're gonna replace that one with
the one that you just copied the next
thing we need to do is we got to
add a another database to this.
And that's because when Prisma does its
migrations it does something called shadow
databases where like
makes another database.
But on Heroku, for
the free Postgres that they give you,
the user that's assigned to that does not
have the permissions to create a database.
So the workaround is to make a another
database until Prisma to use this database
of the shadow database, and
this database is the real database to get
around the permission issue on Heroku.
So that's the only drawback
of using Heroku but
I still think it's much simpler.
To click then to like, get some Docker
thing and deploy to like elastic or
EC to or wherever Digital Ocean is so
much easier.
So what we're looking for is going to be
called shadow database URL like that.
And you're going to set that equal
to env and then whatever env
you set in your env file, so go back to
the Heroku grab the other database URL.
Click on settings, click on view
credentials, grab the second URL.
Once you copy that, go back to your code,
go back to your env file.
Make another env.
I'm just gonna call this SHADOW_DATABASE.
_URL and
I'm gonna set that equal to that URL.
I'm gonna copy this EMV variable
name SHADOW_DATABASE_URL.
We're gonna go back to the schema
Prisma and paste it here.
Look, they ignored .env.local,
.env.development, .env test but
not .env I guess no one uses .env
anymore because that's some old school
thing if you've got the scope DMV
files now that's that's cool.
Walk through the database setup
again once you run Prisma net,
you should have a schema file
here inside the Prisma folder.
And you should have an .nv file
on the root what you need to
do is go to Heroku make
a new app on Heroku.
Once you make that app you
need to go to add ons and
add a Postgres database twice,
two Postgres database get the free one.
And then for each one of those
databases we're gonna add them
as environment variables
to this .env file.
You can name these environment tables,
whatever you want.
I recommend just keeping
the first one DATABASE_URL and
then naming the second
one SHADOW_DATABASE_URL.
So make sure these are the two
URLs that you got from Heroku.
>> And then what is the need for
that shadow one?
>> The need for the shadow one is.
Without looking it up exactly
because there was an issue for
this is Heroku is free Postgres database.
The user that Heroku creates for
that database does not have
a permission to create another
database on that Postgres instance.
Prisma needs the ability to create
a database on the fly when it runs
a migration because it uses that for
transactions.
But because Heroku doesn't give you
permission based off this URL here,
Prisma fells.
So in order to get around that Prisma
allows us to have one database for where
we store the data and another database for
when they make those shadow databases.
So that way they don't have to make
a new one which Heroku will not allow.
So we went ahead and
made the new one for them.
And then we say use this for
the shadow uses for the regular.
Therefore you never need
the permission to make one yourself.
So that's the workaround.
That's only because we're using
Heroku that doesn't have permissions.
If you go use it locally on your computer,
just make sure your user on Postgres
has permissions to create a database.
So admin permission or
if you deploy it somewhere else,
make sure that database
has admin permissions.
And you only need one URL.
But I tried to make this as simple
as possible by not having to log
into a Postgres shell and
try to create an admin user and
do all that stuff,
which is tricky if you've never done it.
So just clicking two buttons on
a Heroku seem to be a lot simpler.
And then the relationship between
Prisma and Heroku is really there's
no relation Prisma doesn't even
know you're talking to Heroku.
Prisma just needs
a database to connect to.
All Prisma is asking is like hey,
you wanna.
Connect to a Postgres database,
because we say providers Postgres, well,
what's the URL to that database?
Well, it's this environment variable.
Okay, you have an optional
shadow database URL.
Yep, it's this environment variable.
It just needs a database to connect to
if you're running Postgres locally,
these would be your local
Postgres URLs and not URLs on Heroku.
Or anywhere you deploy
the Postgres database.
So there actually is no relationship
between the two is that's just where our
database.
It's on Heroku that's the URL that we
have Prisma, just like any other ORM,
like sequel lights, sequel lies,
bookshelf mongoose.
They all need to know the URL for
the database.
This is how Prisma asks for it.